# Reverse Engineering

The work in this directory focuses on deconstructing the firmware and hardware
 of the Steam Controller. The understanding gained from this is the basis for
 the other work being done in this project. 


# Understanding the Hardware

See [Luna_maiboard_V000456-00_rev3.md](./Luna_maiboard_V000456-00_rev3.md) 
 for information regarding the Steam Controller hardware pertaining to 
 Luna_mainboard V000456-00 rev3.


# Understanding the Software

See [LPC11U37F_Software.md](./LPC11U37F_Software.md) for information regarding
 the software running on the LPC11U37 main/master processor.


# TODO

This section is a running list of priorities to focus on in hopes of reaching
 goal of modifying haptics jingle. This will be updated as tasks are completed
 and more knowledge is gained about the Steam Controller.

1. Things to try immediately (see farther below for more details)
    1. Simulate USART and PINT2 IRQs, as well as USB callbacks (at least resume)
        1. All seem to be related... (in that there is some UART comms with Radio)
    1. Dev Board comms with Radio Chip via UART
        1. Monitor PIO1_5 and (anything else we can watch?) to check for change after sending same mesages?
    1. Monitor GPIO1_5 when RF dongle is plugged in or not
        1. Scope with official FW?
    1. Check out what SysTick is doing now that it is setup
        1. It's configured to fire every millisecond

1. Consider converting project(s) to CPP
    1. What version does compiler support?
        1. constexpr goodness?
1. Consider latest firmware update from Valve (new firmware to enable BLE for new Steam Link app)
    1. Look at what has changed?
    1. Will new tooling help to decompose the new firmware faster?
    1. Is this a distraction not worth digging into right now?
        1. Majority of functional behavior from vcf_wired_controller_d0g_57bf5c10.bin should remain unchanged (even if underlying assembly changes). 
        1. Once functionality is fully understood, applying that understanding to newer firmware may be quicker than "starting over" with new firmware?
1. Simulation to C Conversion
    1. Clean
        1. Remove memory section from .c
    1. Pay special attention to GPIOs as they are initialized and memory associated with them
        1. Ohm-out and test via HW to get better idea for purpose of these GPIOs...
    1. Run and decode non-straightforward paths
        1. USART IRQ
            1. Related to Radio?
        1. PINT2
            1. Related to Radio?
        1. SysTick
            1. (Re)visit this as it is now being setup
        1. Callbacks (need to understand hUsb stack details?)
            1. USB_Configure_Event at 0x00004e59
                1. This may be key to dig into as counter shared with USART inital TX also is checked and incremented here...
                1. Make sure you understand when this actually fires (i.e. not until USB is enabled maybe...? Or could it be sooner? Or later triggered by external event?)
            1. USB_Resume_Event at 0x00008de5
            1. USB_Reset_Event at 0x00008d8b 
            1. USB_Suspend_Event at 0x0000995d 
            1. HID_GetReport at 0x00005af1
            1. HID_SetReport at 0x00009565
            1. 0x100010b4 callback related to PINT0?
        1. Interrupts that have been enabled 
            1. PINT0 (interrupt generated by state change of PIO0_3/USB_VBUS)
    1. Continue running straightforward (i.e. from reset vector entry point) sim (with USB_VBUS = 1)
        1. Understand USART comms
            1. Related to Radio?
            1. Any responses expected from radio that would change path?
        1. Looping on checking some variables (related to Radio maybe?)
    1. Questions to consider
        1. What can we run via DevBoard firmware?
            1. What if we send USART messages to Radio chip and monitor GPIO1_5?
        1. Where is path of communicating with nRF51822 wireless chip?
            1. How is communication with this achieved (USART)?
        1. Where is firmware for Radio chip?
            1. How is this updated by Valve?
                1. Check latest vcf as we know there was an update with latest firmware...?
        1. Should focus be Focus on USB_VBUS = 0 instead of USB_VBUS = 1?
            1. For USB_VBUS = 1 case jingle seems to be triggered by USB activity (i.e. driver probing/enumerating)
            1. For USB_VBUS = 0 case jingle seems to be triggered by communicating with RF chip
                1. Note that once controller has synced with RF dongle, plugging in USB does not change USB_VBUS...
1. List more details about hardware [Luna_maiboard_V000456-00_rev3.md](./Luna_maiboard_V000456-00_rev3.md)
    1. Other processors (i.e. wireless comms chip, gyro, haptics chip)
    1. See if we can get information on each pin (focus on LPC chip)
    1. What is ADC connected to (specifically Channel 6)
        1. This may help with understanding some of these GPIOs...
    1. Find out more on these GPIOs (i.e. Ohm it out, test using custom firmware)
        1. PIO1_10
        1. PIO1_7 
        1. PIO0_19 
        1. PIO0_2
        1. PIO1_28
        1. PIO0_7
        1. PIO0_22 (AD6) What does this read...?
        1. PIO1_1 (JTAG related?)
        1. PIO1_28 and PIO1_4 (USART/Radio chip related?)
        1. PIO1_5 (USART/Radio chip related. PINT2).
            1. What is state of this? Changes if we send messages via UART?
    1. Add Chart to label how hardware peripherals are used?
        1. CT16B1 = driving Steam Controller LED
        1. CT16B0 = used as timer for a delay during init. (That it?)
        1. SSP0 = CS ?? = Left Haptics, CS ?? = Right Haptics 
1. Decompose EEPROM dumps
    1. Captured from two different controllers to isolate some differences
    1. Change settings to isolate other differences
1. Can we (continue to) make pinkySim logging better 
    1. More automation or second steps for cleaning .c log file?
1. Look into wireless chip
    1. Is same one on dongle?
        1. If so can I use dongle as dev board?
            1. If not should I order a dev board (https://www.nordicsemi.com/eng/Products/nRF51-Dongle)
