# Jingle Tests

This document outlines the Jingles that have been created for test purposes. The
 idea is to identify differences between the Jingle playback of the
 Open Steam Controller Firmware and the official firmware. These tests will also
 dig into any shortcomings and issues with the Jingle Data design itself and 
 whether the SCJingleConverter can compensate for these issues or not.

## Repeated Note Test

Tones are generated by toggling a GPIO high and low related to the haptic. The
 rate at which this GPIO is toggled and length are calculated based on the
 Note specification (i.e. Frequency and Duration). If two notes of the same
 exact frequency are played back to back, there needs to be a break between
 the Notes (i.e. toggling of the GPIO) or the Notes will bleed together and 
 sound like a single Note. This test looks for scenarios in which Notes may
 bleed together.

### The Test

See the [Repeated Notes Test](./RepeatedNotesTest.musicxml). This is a series of repeated
 Notes of various durations. The idea is to modify the BPM to make sure that 
 does not affect how the Notes sound. The frequency of the Notes should also be 
 modified by using the Octave Adjust configuration option in order to show that
 this also does not modify the distinction of individual Notes.

## Drift Over Time Test

A Jingle is presented to the Steam Controller firmware as an array of Notes for
 both the left and right channels. Since it takes time to setup a Note, there
 is a possibility that if the two channels do not have the same number of Notes
 they will drift out of alignment over time. 

### The Test

See the [Drift Over Time Test](./DriftOverTimeTest.musicxml). This file has two
 channels. Both channels pause for a while and then play a Note. The difference
 is that one channel does this with a longer rests, while the other does this
 with a series of shorter rests. 

## Note Duration Coarse Test

When a Note is sent to the controller firmware to be played, it is broken down
 into a Pulse High Duration, Pulse Low Duration and Repeat Count. If the Note
 is of a low frequency this method may result in the duration of a Note being
 inaccurate. 

### The Test

See the [Note Duration Coarse Test](./NoteDurationCoarseTest.musicxml). This
 is similar to the Drift Over Time Test, except that one channel has a series
 of low frequency Notes instead of rests.

## Frequency Accuracy Test

The purpose of this test is to see what frequencies can be produced via the 
 Haptics and if there is any considerable error at different frequencies.

### The Test

See the [Frequency Accuracy Test](FrequencyAccuracyTest.musicxml). This test
 produces a series of Notes at different frequencies. Each Note is held for 
 a period of time, followed by a rest. A violin tuner app, or FFT app on your
 Smartphone can be used to observe how accurate each Note is.

